Pt 168289008 sc soft reject 2 (#429)
aeternity/protocol: node/api/channels_api_usage.md

}
```

#### Abort update

The update flow relies on participants reaching agreement according to
updates. The process of getting there is not changing the channel state and
thus is not part of the off-chain protocol. If needed, clients are expected to

> use [generic messages](#generic_messages) to build conensus around what the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use [generic messages](#generic_messages) to reach consensus around what the
```

next update shall be.

Even if a proper protocol is in place for reaching an agreement, there might

> be a need of the ability to cancel update. This is only possible while the FSM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be a need for cancelling an update explicitly. This is only possible while the FSM
```

FSM is waiting for an authentication by this particular client. Once an update
is authenticated by a client, that client can no longer abort it.

The FSM produces two types of transactions according to how many
authentications are required for them:
* solo authenticated transactions:
  * `channel_close_solo_tx`
  * `channel_slash_tx`
  * `channel_settle_tx`
  * `channel_snapshot_tx`
* mutually authenticated transactions - all the rest

> When a client is prompted to authenticate an update, one is expected to either

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a client is prompted to authenticate an update, it is expected to either
```

> agree to it with an authentication or to send a cancel it. If it is a solo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
agree to it with an authentication or to cancel it. If it is a solo
```

> authenticated transaction or if it is a mutually authentication one but the

Reviewer: This sentence is very unclear.

> the update - the other FSM might receive a message or not. If it was this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the update, the other FSM might receive a message or not. If it was this
```

client that triggered the pending update - the other FSM is not aware of it
yet.  In this case no message is sent to the other FSM.  If the other party

> has started the update and has already authenticated it, our client can still

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
started the update and has already authenticated it, our client can still
```

either authenticate or abort it. If aborted - the FSM will inform the other

> party that the update had been rejected, sending an abort conflict message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
party that the update was rejected, sending an abort conflict message.
```

> If the update had been canceled, FSM returns to the last co-authenticated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the update has been cancelled, the FSM returns to the last co-authenticated
```

> If the update has been aborted, the FSM returns to the last co-authenticated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the update is aborted, the FSM returns to the last co-authenticated
```

state and enters an `open` state, waiting for a new update to be initiated.
Since there is no previous stable state before the channel initial

> transaction, the `channel_create_tx` can not be canceled. It is the initiator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transaction, the `channel_create_tx` can not be cancelled. It is the initiator
```

> that produces it so if the responder had different expectations for it, one is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that produces it so if the responder had different expectations for it, it is
```

> expected to close the connection instead. Then it can be reopened with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
better to close the connection instead. Then it can be reopened with
```

a different set of opening arguments.

> The request for cancelling an update is the same, no matter if the canceled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request for cancelling an update is the same, no matter if the cancelled
```

> The request for aborting an update is the same, no matter if the pending

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The request for aborting an update is the same, no matter whether or not the pending
```

> update had been triggered by the other party or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
update was triggered by the other party.
```

When there is a pending udpate, waiting for the client to approve, one can
also abort it using the same method one would use for providing the
authenticated transaction. The difference is that one provides an error code
instead.

```javascript
{
   "jsonrpc":"2.0",
   "method":<signing method>,
   "params":{
      "error":147
   }
}
```

The response the client receives in that case is:

```javascript
{ 
   "jsonrpc":"2.0",
   "method":"channels.info",
   "params":{ 
      "channel_id":"ch_95Ya...",
      "data":{ 
         "event":"canceled_update"
      }
   },
   "version":1
}
```

If the client tries sending a cancel message when it is not applicable, it
will receive an error response instead:

```javascript
{
   "channel_id":"ch_95Ya...",
   "error":{
      "code":3,
      "data":[
         {
            "code":1018,
            "message":"Not allowed at current channel state"
         }
      ],
      "message":"Rejected",
      "request":{
         "jsonrpc":"2.0",
         "method":"channels.update",
            "params":{
                "error":147
            }
      }
   },
   "id":null,
   "jsonrpc":"2.0",
   "version":1
}
```

> If the other party had triggered the canceled update, it is informed with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the other party had triggered the cancelled update, it is informed with
```
